README.md, before:

# SaaS Go App

A SaaS web application backend built with Go and Gin, featuring Vue.js frontend, Heroku Postgres Advanced with follower pools, Redis for background jobs, and JWT authentication.

## Features

- **RESTful API** with CRUD operations for customers and accounts
- **JWT Authentication** for secure API access
- **Background Jobs** using Asynq for data aggregation
- **Analytics Endpoints** that read from follower pools
- **Health Checks** and Prometheus metrics
- **Vue.js Frontend** with Bootstrap styling

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Go + Gin
- **Frontend**: Vue.js 3 + Bootstrap 5
- **Database**: PostgreSQL (Heroku Postgres Advanced)
- **Cache/Jobs**: Redis + Asynq
- **Monitoring**: Prometheus

## Project Structure

```
saas-go-app/
├── cmd/
│   └── server/
│       └── main.go          # Application entry point
├── internal/
│   ├── api/                 # API handlers
│   ├── auth/                # JWT authentication
│   ├── db/                  # Database connection and migrations
│   ├── jobs/                # Background job handlers
│   └── models/              # Data models
├── web/
│   └── frontend/            # Vue.js frontend application
├── Makefile                 # Common tasks
├── go.mod                   # Go dependencies
└── README.md
```

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21+
- Node.js 18+
- PostgreSQL (or Heroku Postgres)
- Redis (optional, for background jobs)

### Backend Setup

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
make deps
```

2. Create a `.env` file (see `env.example`):
```bash
# For local development, set up PostgreSQL and Redis locally
# Or use Docker:
#   docker run -d -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres postgres
#   docker run -d -p 6379:6379 redis

DATABASE_URL=postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/saas_go_app?sslmode=disable
ANALYTICS_DB_URL=postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/saas_go_app?sslmode=disable  # Can use same DB for local dev
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379/0
JWT_SECRET=your-secret-key-change-in-production
PORT=8080
```

**Note**: On Heroku, `DATABASE_URL`, `ANALYTICS_DB_URL`, `REDIS_URL`, and `PORT` are automatically set by Heroku addons. You only need to set `JWT_SECRET` manually.

3. Run the server:
```bash
make run
# or
go run ./cmd/server
```

The server will automatically create database tables on startup.

### Frontend Setup

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:
```bash
cd web/frontend
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

The frontend will be available at `http://localhost:3000` and will proxy API requests to `http://localhost:8080`.

**For Production/Heroku Deployment:**
1. Build the frontend:
```bash
cd web/frontend
npm install
npm run build
```

2. The built files will be in `web/frontend/dist/`
3. The Go server will automatically serve these files when deployed
4. See [FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT.md](FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed deployment options

## API Endpoints

### Authentication
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Login and get JWT token
- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register a new user

### Customers (Protected)
- `GET /api/customers` - Get all customers
- `GET /api/customers/:id` - Get customer by ID
- `POST /api/customers` - Create a new customer
- `PUT /api/customers/:id` - Update customer
- `DELETE /api/customers/:id` - Delete customer

### Accounts (Protected)
- `GET /api/accounts` - Get all accounts
- `GET /api/accounts/:id` - Get account by ID
- `POST /api/accounts` - Create a new account
- `PUT /api/accounts/:id` - Update account
- `DELETE /api/accounts/:id` - Delete account

### Analytics (Protected)
- `GET /api/analytics` - Get overall analytics
- `GET /api/analytics/customers/:customer_id` - Get customer-specific analytics

### Health & Metrics
- `GET /health` - Health check endpoint
- `GET /metrics` - Prometheus metrics

## Heroku Deployment

> **📘 For detailed Heroku deployment instructions, see [HEROKU_SETUP.md](HEROKU_SETUP.md)**

### Quick Setup

```bash
# Login to Heroku
heroku login

# Create Heroku app
heroku create saas-go-app

# Provision Postgres Advanced
heroku addons:create heroku-postgresql:standard-0 --name saas-go-db

# (Optional) Provision Redis
heroku addons:create heroku-redis:hobby-dev

# Get DATABASE_URL
heroku config:get DATABASE_URL

# Set up follower pool for analytics (via Heroku Dashboard)
# Go to: https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/saas-go-app
# Click on the database addon → Create Follower/Follower Pool
# Or check HEROKU_SETUP.md for detailed instructions

# Get ANALYTICS_DB_URL from follower
heroku config:get ANALYTICS_DB_URL

# Set environment variables
heroku config:set JWT_SECRET=your-production-secret-key

# Deploy
git push heroku main

# Open app
heroku open
```

**Note**: The `Procfile` tells Heroku how to run your app. Heroku's Go buildpack will automatically detect `go.mod` and build your application. The binary name matches your module name (`saas-go-app`).

### Environment Variables on Heroku

**Automatically Set by Heroku:**
- `DATABASE_URL` - Automatically set by `heroku-postgresql` addon (primary database)
- `ANALYTICS_DB_URL` - Automatically set when you create a follower pool (via Heroku Dashboard)
- `REDIS_URL` - Automatically set by `heroku-redis` addon (if provisioned)
- `PORT` - Automatically set by Heroku platform

**Manually Configured:**
- `JWT_SECRET` - **You must set this manually**: `heroku config:set JWT_SECRET=your-secret-key`

**Important**: When you provision Heroku Postgres Advanced and create a follower pool, Heroku automatically provides the connection URLs. You don't need to manually configure `DATABASE_URL` or `ANALYTICS_DB_URL` - they're set automatically by the addons.

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
make test
# or with coverage
make test-coverage
```

### Building

```bash
make build
```

### Code Formatting

```bash
make fmt
```

## Background Jobs

Background jobs are processed using Asynq. Jobs are enqueued for data aggregation tasks. The job processor runs automatically when `REDIS_URL` is configured.

Example: Enqueue an aggregation task (can be added to API handlers):

```go
import "saas-go-app/internal/jobs"

client, _ := jobs.NewClient(os.Getenv("REDIS_URL"))
jobs.EnqueueAggregationTask(client, time.Now())
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add database seeding functionality with sample customers and accounts
This commit adds the ability to seed the database with sample data for development
and demo purposes. The seed function creates realistic customer and account data
with proper relationships.

Changes:
- Created internal/db/seed.go with SeedData() and SeedDataIfEmpty() functions
- Seed function creates 5 sample customers and 12 linked accounts
- Accounts are properly linked to customers via customer_id foreign keys
- Seed only runs if database is empty (safe, won't overwrite existing data)
- Added SEED_DATA environment variable to control seeding
- Updated main.go to check SEED_DATA env var and seed on startup if enabled
- Updated Makefile with seed command
- Updated env.example and README.md with SEED_DATA documentation

Sample data includes:
- 5 customers: Acme Corporation, TechStart Inc, Global Solutions Ltd, etc.
- 12 accounts with proper customer relationships
- Mix of active and inactive account statuses

Usage:
- Local: Set SEED_DATA=true in .env file
- Heroku: heroku config:set SEED_DATA=true
- Make: make seed

The seed function is idempotent - it only runs if the database is empty,
making it safe to enable in production for initial setup.

README.md, after:

# SaaS Go App

A SaaS web application backend built with Go and Gin, featuring Vue.js frontend, Heroku Postgres Advanced with follower pools, Redis for background jobs, and JWT authentication.

## Features

- **RESTful API** with CRUD operations for customers and accounts
- **JWT Authentication** for secure API access
- **Background Jobs** using Asynq for data aggregation
- **Analytics Endpoints** that read from follower pools
- **Health Checks** and Prometheus metrics
- **Vue.js Frontend** with Bootstrap styling

## Tech Stack

- **Backend**: Go + Gin
- **Frontend**: Vue.js 3 + Bootstrap 5
- **Database**: PostgreSQL (Heroku Postgres Advanced)
- **Cache/Jobs**: Redis + Asynq
- **Monitoring**: Prometheus

## Project Structure

```
saas-go-app/
├── cmd/
│   └── server/
│       └── main.go          # Application entry point
├── internal/
│   ├── api/                 # API handlers
│   ├── auth/                # JWT authentication
│   ├── db/                  # Database connection and migrations
│   ├── jobs/                # Background job handlers
│   └── models/              # Data models
├── web/
│   └── frontend/            # Vue.js frontend application
├── Makefile                 # Common tasks
├── go.mod                   # Go dependencies
└── README.md
```

## Setup

### Prerequisites

- Go 1.21+
- Node.js 18+
- PostgreSQL (or Heroku Postgres)
- Redis (optional, for background jobs)

### Backend Setup

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
make deps
```

2. Create a `.env` file (see `env.example`):
```bash
# For local development, set up PostgreSQL and Redis locally
# Or use Docker:
#   docker run -d -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres postgres
#   docker run -d -p 6379:6379 redis

DATABASE_URL=postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/saas_go_app?sslmode=disable
ANALYTICS_DB_URL=postgres://user:password@localhost:5432/saas_go_app?sslmode=disable  # Can use same DB for local dev
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379/0
JWT_SECRET=your-secret-key-change-in-production
PORT=8080
SEED_DATA=true  # Set to "true" to populate database with sample data on startup
```

**Note**: On Heroku, `DATABASE_URL`, `ANALYTICS_DB_URL`, `REDIS_URL`, and `PORT` are automatically set by Heroku addons. You only need to set `JWT_SECRET` manually.

3. Run the server:
```bash
make run
# or
go run ./cmd/server
```

The server will automatically create database tables on startup.

### Frontend Setup

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:
```bash
cd web/frontend
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

The frontend will be available at `http://localhost:3000` and will proxy API requests to `http://localhost:8080`.

**For Production/Heroku Deployment:**
1. Build the frontend:
```bash
cd web/frontend
npm install
npm run build
```

2. The built files will be in `web/frontend/dist/`
3. The Go server will automatically serve these files when deployed
4. See [FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT.md](FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed deployment options

## API Endpoints

### Authentication
- `POST /api/auth/login` - Login and get JWT token
- `POST /api/auth/register` - Register a new user

### Customers (Protected)
- `GET /api/customers` - Get all customers
- `GET /api/customers/:id` - Get customer by ID
- `POST /api/customers` - Create a new customer
- `PUT /api/customers/:id` - Update customer
- `DELETE /api/customers/:id` - Delete customer

### Accounts (Protected)
- `GET /api/accounts` - Get all accounts
- `GET /api/accounts/:id` - Get account by ID
- `POST /api/accounts` - Create a new account
- `PUT /api/accounts/:id` - Update account
- `DELETE /api/accounts/:id` - Delete account

### Analytics (Protected)
- `GET /api/analytics` - Get overall analytics
- `GET /api/analytics/customers/:customer_id` - Get customer-specific analytics

### Health & Metrics
- `GET /health` - Health check endpoint
- `GET /metrics` - Prometheus metrics

## Heroku Deployment

> **📘 For detailed Heroku deployment instructions, see [HEROKU_SETUP.md](HEROKU_SETUP.md)**

### Quick Setup

```bash
# Login to Heroku
heroku login

# Create Heroku app
heroku create saas-go-app

# Provision Postgres Advanced
heroku addons:create heroku-postgresql:standard-0 --name saas-go-db

# (Optional) Provision Redis
heroku addons:create heroku-redis:hobby-dev

# Get DATABASE_URL
heroku config:get DATABASE_URL

# Set up follower pool for analytics (via Heroku Dashboard)
# Go to: https://dashboard.heroku.com/apps/saas-go-app
# Click on the database addon → Create Follower/Follower Pool
# Or check HEROKU_SETUP.md for detailed instructions

# Get ANALYTICS_DB_URL from follower
heroku config:get ANALYTICS_DB_URL

# Set environment variables
heroku config:set JWT_SECRET=your-production-secret-key

# Deploy
git push heroku main

# Open app
heroku open
```

**Note**: The `Procfile` tells Heroku how to run your app. Heroku's Go buildpack will automatically detect `go.mod` and build your application. The binary name matches your module name (`saas-go-app`).

### Environment Variables on Heroku

**Automatically Set by Heroku:**
- `DATABASE_URL` - Automatically set by `heroku-postgresql` addon (primary database)
- `ANALYTICS_DB_URL` - Automatically set when you create a follower pool (via Heroku Dashboard)
- `REDIS_URL` - Automatically set by `heroku-redis` addon (if provisioned)
- `PORT` - Automatically set by Heroku platform

**Manually Configured:**
- `JWT_SECRET` - **You must set this manually**: `heroku config:set JWT_SECRET=your-secret-key`

**Important**: When you provision Heroku Postgres Advanced and create a follower pool, Heroku automatically provides the connection URLs. You don't need to manually configure `DATABASE_URL` or `ANALYTICS_DB_URL` - they're set automatically by the addons.

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
make test
# or with coverage
make test-coverage
```

### Building

```bash
make build
```

### Code Formatting

```bash
make fmt
```

## Background Jobs

Background jobs are processed using Asynq. Jobs are enqueued for data aggregation tasks. The job processor runs automatically when `REDIS_URL` is configured.

Example: Enqueue an aggregation task (can be added to API handlers):

```go
import "saas-go-app/internal/jobs"

client, _ := jobs.NewClient(os.Getenv("REDIS_URL"))
jobs.EnqueueAggregationTask(client, time.Now())
```

## License

MIT
